we often talk about perpetual calendars
but what eases our calendar systems the
Gregorian calendar is very complicated
with a monthly 31 days with 30 days 28
and when we are wearing a wristwatch
with a date indicator we have to adjust
it every end of the month a watch with a
perpetual calendar should do this
automatically my task was to develop a
new perpetual calendar every sport with
a perpetual calendar it was not easy in
this time beginning the 1980s not easy
that means it was a real adventure to do
it with all tools I had or I had not I
have to try how could I do this in a
race watch I wanted to do something
extraordinary
I say it should be a new generation of
perpetual calendar easy for the user
easy to adjust only by turning the drum
it should be easy to produce and my way
all these years I always tried to make
it possible to make Industrial serial
production of this perpetual calendar
that was never before so I got my first
ideas how to change the date and of
February for instance and to change the
date hand for the last three days and so
I had my ideas a date wheel with surf
Davonte
then a small lever to change the date
wheel for one step every night and then
I needed another small level to change
the date and from February 28th of 31st
one day in 1984 I finished the first
prototype and this was a very important
day for me I got two microscope I got a
camera on top of the microscope and so I
started the calendar one evening of the
27th of February and I was observing how
it was working and it changed it to the
28th of February so I continued to
observe the changement from 28th of
February to 1st of March and I made
photos and photos
I never was working the whole day only
looking in the microscope how it works
and it works and it really changed to
1st of March and for me then it was it
was one of my happiest days of my life
with this combination this mechanical
movement with a perpetual calendar IWC
was able to give to a wristwatch much
more any quartz watch can give and so
the mechanical watch was really the
rhythm in this
time until today IWC is still building
the perpetual calendar which was
invented in 1983 by Kurt Klaus the
speciality of our perpetual calendar is
that it shows a full calendar which
means it shows you the day the date
month the year the decade the century
and also the millennia which changes for
example from 1999 to the year 2000
another speciality of the IWC perpetual
calendar is the double moon phase which
is placed at 12 o'clock that will show
you the northern and the southern
hemisphere probably the most important
feature of the perpetual calendar is
setting the whole system once you
test-tube start running again
Kurt Klaus want to make it as simple as
possible not to be pushing a lot of
buttons so he just set everything over
the crown which means pulling the stem
and you can switch the whole calendar
and set it over the crown with the
perpetual calendar IWC created a
milestone in watchmaking and therefore
it has been and will remain one of our
most important complications
you